---
fedi_link: https://fedi.vale.rocks/notice/B0f2bdCNoMpRWDCiVU
bsky_link: https://bsky.app/profile/vale.rocks/post/3m6ln5ac6gc2b
---

I have become rather adept at walking through crowds such as those found on a busy city street in the morning. I've refined a system to allow effective navigation, and people I've introduced it to have found success, so I've documented it here:

1. Ensure your posture is exemplary. Chin raised, straight back -- as if a straight metal rod starts at the base of your spine and runs up into your head. Do not round your shoulders.

2. Walk at a brisk pace. You should have a slight air of importance and urgency. If possible, wear shoes which stomp slightly and produce a bit of a sound. Formal shoes often do as much. Do not slow down unless it would put you in danger or cause a collision.

3. Look at a fixed distance straight ahead. Do not look at a fixed object. If something such as a person breaks your line of sight, look beyond them rather than adjusting the distance of your gaze. You aren't looking at the people in front of you beyond knowing where they are but instead looking directly through them. You should mostly be keeping track of your surroundings via your peripheries, but when you do need to look to the side, do not twist your neck but instead move your shoulders to rotate your head.

4. As you walk, do not pivot to move side to side, but instead drift left and right while keeping yourself facing directly forward.

This system is based on confidence and only works for moving through crowds that can see you. If you're walking with the flow, disregard and dodge and weave. If the flow is moving in two directions, you might be able to work against the grain.

_At no point should you be hindering the movement of others, cutting others off, or otherwise being a pest or nuisance._
