---
tags: AI
---

I read a [very fascinating post](https://susam.net/fed-24-years-of-posts-to-markov-model.html) on building a tiny Markov model based on one's own writing. Naturally, I gave it a whirl on the currently ~120,000-word corpus of Vale.Rocks. Reproduced below are some of the slightly more coherent, interesting outputs that I've cherry-picked.

> Patches are also frequent comparisons to previous hype-driven drivel such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript where possible but often find myself engaging with a damp paper towel once I got my biomagnet installed, and for the sake of preserving my appearance or structure. My body without me is a child of .. You are now well estranged by time, and a more varied, refined equipment system. It is so much better. The new flexibility allotted by our full redesign and development allows for individuals to customise their editor to define how prose should display.

> YOLO (You Only Live Once) is just writing, perhaps supplemented with additional JavaScript-based functionality considered progressive enhancement, but that is iffy.

Three outputs from a command which instructs the text to begin with 'The web is' (`./mvs 2 100 'The web is' < vale_corpus.txt`):

> The web is my attempt to offer both—a unique, accessible experience. Perhaps the largest and most advisories urge against its usage. Exploitation of the Google search results page for the first few hours later with an external interface where I feel like a library or school which doesn’t have the technology.

> The web is dominated by Chrome, and something tangible to walk away with and without variance. If there ever is a physical arcade rail shooter with a range of national organisations. We worked on the use of AV1. AV1 as a unicycle contributes to people’s willingness to manually implement and hard-code every single thing. Thus, I moved away from giving any advice at all. Given this is a case of Malaysia, many remote areas were going to figure out the specifics of what you’re writing, you’re limiting your reach and hurting your growth. Yet another step up from a moving

> The web is dominated by Chrome, and something needs to do so. I figured I’d do something on the Xbox, I wouldn’t sweat it if you use Samsung Internet? Person: I’m not a huge interest in smoking, which is lovely for debugging and visualising exactly how much this game is pushing forward while minimising miscommunication. You’re going to be carefully considered and future-proofed – especially not mother monkeys with infants. This snake’s name is George, and while I did little circles. While most kids were wishing us a compliment, which was unfortunately let down somewhat by the very comprehensive IRDB.
