---
linkedin_link: declan-chidlow_im-reducing-my-linkedin-presence-ive-share-7452589040815616001-QwGu?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAADrvjH4Bbh-vSOLeF2cT2B9hawm7XlnNZ5c
---

I'm reducing my LinkedIn presence.

I've come to realise I don't really benefit from a presence on LinkedIn. It attracts spam, scams, and unwanted messages. It also doesn't help me find work -- I've gotten more work from Bluesky than LinkedIn!

The content on LinkedIn is not useful to me. The people I care about are more present on other platforms, and I get more AI prose and images in my feed than I do genuine content. The relevant information I do get is often false, with there being a lot of accessibility slop in particular.

LinkedIn is run by Microsoft and cosy with the United States' regime. It has [removed protections for transgender individuals](/micros/20250903-0316) and fails to properly moderate misinformation. The platform actively penalises certain content, such that I don't feel free to say what I want or to [link freely](/micros/20251216-0127).

LinkedIn also absolutely chugs whenever I try to use it. Perhaps that is related to [scanning everyone's computers for installed browser extensions](https://browsergate.eu). The site is very poorly optimised for mobile and consistently pushes me to use the app.

I'm not leaving entirely, as having an account makes it easier to combat [accounts that steal my work](/micros/20250422-0420), and having no presence on the platform can prove a red flag for some. I have cleared out my profile, though. If you wish to contact me or want to keep up with what I'm doing, my site has all you need.
