---
title: How I Shave My Head
---

Shaving all the hair off your head [can be great](/micros/20250209-0846) but is an ordeal. I don't own clippers or an electric razor, so this is how I do the task. It takes me roughly three hours from a full head of long hair to bald, including prep and clean-up.

I'm usually beginning from over a year of unmanaged hair growth, so an important first step is to remove the bulk existing hair. I do this as part of a multi-part process. First, I clean my hair and wait for it to dry, then separate it out into strands and perform many plaits, holding it together with rubber bands. Then, I use some scissors to cut it as close to the scalp as possible. This process keeps the hair orderly, so it can be used for alternative purposes in the future, such as wigs or paintbrushes.

I then follow up _very carefully_ with scissors, getting as close to my scalp as possible and removing as much hair as I can. Once I've gotten it as close as I feasibly can with scissors, I move on to using a razor. I always ensure I have enough razors on hand, because going shopping for more with uneven clumps of hair stuck to your head isn't a great look. I shave my head with the same process I use when dealing with any other bodily hair I shave, though it is worth considering that hair on the top of one's head is usually much finer than that found elsewhere. For a first shave, going _with_ the grain to minimise irritation is certainly the best choice, even if it doesn't let you get quite as close of a shave.

The back and top of the head are a particular pain to shave, so I use a second mirror (often just my phone with the front camera). Holding a razor in one hand and mirror in the other, I look at the reflection of my mirror in the main bathroom mirror to see the back of my head. I take particular note of the hair atop and around my ears and at the back of the head, especially between the upper portions of the trapezius muscles, which forms a nook that can be hard to access. The crown can also be difficult, as it is hard to track the grain of the hair.

I pay particular attention to these parts and avoid going over the same place too many times in succession to avoid irritation. The head is a big place, so don't focus on the same small part for too long -- give it a break for a little while and address another part, coming back to the previous bit later.

After shaving, I have a shower and then touch up any remaining bits before another quick wash. Then I apply whatever creams/lotions I have at hand to sooth my scalp. Shaving one's head isn't too tricky but is an effort. You must of course ensure your hair does not end up down the drains, causing a clog.
