---
title: Hydrocolloid Rolls For Acne And Pimples
fedi_link: B6kFezlS0n1PJZk5eS
bsky_link: vale.rocks/post/3mmvad4ghys2y
---

If you suffer from acne or get the occasional pimple, you may be familiar with pimple patches. The good (non-psuedoscience/gimmick) patches are hydrocolloid patches, which absorb the fluid and form a gel from it.

You can buy rolls of adhesive hydrocolloid dressings for prices that are negligible compared to a comparable volume of pimple patches at their premium prices. Patches cut from hydrocolloid rolls aren't usually quite as invisible as purpose-designed patches, but they are transparent. The raise around the edge of the patch due to its non-tapered thickness is the most obvious part, but you could feasibly trim them yourself to minimise the visibility.

You can cut these rolls to suit, only using as much as you need, and they've been proven both scientifically and anecdotally to work on popped and unpopped pimples while deterring scarring due to the moist healing process. They do not work on deep, blind cystic acne or blackheads, however. In addition to hydrocolloid's properties, a patch also disincentivises idle picking and protects the site from muck and bacteria. Even if you buy a hydrocolloid roll and find it useless for treating pimples, it is still a valuable tool more generally for burns, cuts, and scrapes.

To use, you should first gently wash and then dry the application site. Next, cut the patch to size, peel off the backing, and apply it where needed. I've had great success with them.
