---
title: Dire State of the Tech Industry in 2026
fedi_link: B7xeTc5ryyS9kvOKgq
bsky_link: vale.rocks/post/3mpqoosqxis24
---

I'm not quite sure where to go or what to do. I'm watching my peers slowly burn out, go quiet, quit the industry, or struggle on hoping it'll get better in time. Even if the storm is weathered, what comes out the other side?

Businesses seem wary of investing in people or just spending money at all. I feel I have to sell the very basic concept of doing 'good work', rather than 'good enough work'. Accessibility feels like something I discuss but don't get to see through.

Things are stagnating for genuine professionals.

Many conferences are coming to their end, seeing lower attendance, and are dominated by AI talks. Of those that are surviving, many are cutting budgets or catering to smaller, focussed audiences. Most publications are seeing declining readership, and many are turning to AI for their content.

This is a clear result of education by humans being in a struggling place, with people turning to generative AI for quick solutions (and notably not to comprehensively learn). Speaking to many folks with courses, their sales have plummeted – dropped completely to nil in a disturbing number of cases.

It is gutting to feel I'd see greater success if I didn't care who I worked for, gave up on my morals, and embraced the latest harmful fad. Grifting has long been a thing, but at present it seems there aren't any consequences beyond one's own conscience and that it is the optimal way to make a buck.

Pair all those issues with the dire state of everything. Computers and their components' costs continue to inflate, the USA has a fascist government, there are major ongoing wars (and new ones being started), and everything is increasingly morally ambiguous – especially in tech.

Couple all that with the erosion of rights and companies being increasingly anti-consumer. Forcing features unwanted, removing features wanted, taking away physical media, making all a subscription, taking away our control of our devices and what software we can run on them, and eroding privacy.

Things are dire, and I'm thinking I need to pivot, because front-end developer is a job that companies are happy to have AI complete, regardless of if it is on par with a professional's work. My work is better than sloppy AI output, but that can be hard to distinguish if one doesn't investigate.

Perhaps a freelancer collective is needed? A distributed agency. Different people with different specialisations sharing resources and referring work to each other based on their capabilities. Every freelancer I know is reporting difficulty finding work, and they're long established in the industry.

I don't know how to feel or what to do. Things are bad, and while I'm sure they'll get better to a degree eventually, I'm not sure how much better they'll get. What does 'better' look like when the greatest minds in the industry have left and don't come back? So much lost skill and knowledge.
