---
title: Google I/O 2026 And Its Consequences
fedi_link: B6ViAbFcZQIttrJWvQ
bsky_link: vale.rocks/post/3mmdlumm3os2s
tags: [AI, development]
---

2026's Google I/O (Google's annual developer conference) has been a disaster for the web. The conference-driven development's forcing through of the [Prompt API](https://wil.to/posts/googles-prompt-api/), a set of [Modern Web Guidance skills](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/modern-web-guidance) for AI systems to use that are already showing major accessibility shortcomings, and a whole ton more AI-spangled sloppery, is rushed and unwelcome.

I think the most damaging announcement is [the changes coming to Google Search](https://blog.google/products-and-platforms/products/search/search-io-2026/). Rather than a list of relevant links, a search on Google will be more aggressively prioritising the LLM-generated summary, now complete with vibecoded tables, graphs, and interactive elements.

There has until now been a social contract. Website owners let Google scrape their sites and present them in Google Search, and, in exchange, Google Search sends traffic back to those sites. Google wins via adverts on the search page, and sites win due to however they monetise traffic. More largely, everyone wins because there is a financial incentive to create and produce new content.

However, Google killing their side of the contract ends this. If Google only takes and never gives, then sites cannot profit. What is the incentive to publish if the only outcome is feeding Google's AI with no return? What sources will LLMs have to pull from if all the sources are defunct? How far will Google go [folding adverts into their AI output](https://matthiasott.com/notes/ad-infinitum)?

I can see the huge short-term gain for Google, but I see no long-term path -- not even an unsustainable one. This feels like the end, but of exactly what I'm uncertain.

All of my peers (bar the ones that work at Google) are shattered in a way I've never seen before. I don't know where we go from here.
