---
title: Zack D Films Magnet Implant Video Debunk
tags: [transhumanism]
---

Popular short-form video creator Zack D Films uploaded a video in 2024 titled ['Biohacking With A Magnetic Implant 😳'](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/rcfpt4Leq1w). It has been seen by a lot of people. Currently it sits at almost 29 million views and 1.4 million likes on YouTube alone, having also been posted on many other platforms, including TikTok and Facebook. It has also spread via reuploads by other accounts.

I have a magnet implanted in my hand. I've [written about it at length](/posts/my-experience-biohacking) and [published my own short-form videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLkpryzooKZXtUEnIO6Cp7KSQ1LezKHI75). Unfortunately, people cite this video at me all the time, blindly believing the claims it makes and even trusting it over me. Here are some debunks:

1. 'The magnet vibrates slightly, allowing you to detect hidden electronics or wires.' Kinda. You're certainly not feeling anything from a cable under a piece of fabric charging a phone as depicted. The vibration you feel is alternating current (AC), so you'd never feel it from a length of phone cable, which will always be direct current (DC). You can legitimately feel a flutter from, for example, a computer power supply, however.

2. 'Connecting it to an infrared device would let you feel the distance of objects.' What? How are you 'connecting' a magnet to an infrared device? How are you feeling the distance of objects? The animation shows a mobile phone, but modern phones don't have IR capabilities (the phone depicted appears to be an iPhone, which doesn't). If you're making a separate device for detecting distance via IR, why not just make the device alert you another way? How does a magnet come into this? None of this makes any sense.

3. 'Eventually though, the magnet will lose its strength'. There are a few conditions under which magnets lose their strength. Heat, trauma, and corrosion can demagnetise a magnet. However, if your implant is reaching the Curie temp or encountering other such significant damage, your fleshy human form has much bigger problems. Proper implants are always coated, usually with glass, resin, titanium or gold, and while tactile nerve displacement can lessen the effectiveness of a magnet implant, it won't demagnetise it.
